JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: Our
counterintelligence
mission is investing the Russian
government's
efforts to interfere in the 2016
presidential
election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: FBI Director
James Comey confirms
a probe into Russian meddling,
including possible
links between Moscow and the
Trump campaign,
while saying there's no evidence
for the president's
charge he was wiretapped.
In our other lead story:
President Trump's
Supreme Court nominee, Judge
Neil Gorsuch,
faces the Senate Judiciary
Committee on the
first day of confirmation
hearings.
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: Ninety-seven
percent of those 2,700 cases I
have decided
were decided unanimously, and
that I have
been in the majority 99 percent
of the time.
That's my record and that's how
we do things
in the West.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And from the
items in a market
to celebrating work, how one art
exhibit is
defining the nature of home here
in the U.S.
for Latino Americans.
RAMIRO GOMEZ, Artist: So, I'm at
once Mexican
and American.
I'm in between.
That in-between space, that
in-between place
that I occupy is something that
is constantly
changing within myself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: An unusually
newsy day in the
nation's capital, even by
Washington standards,
that make up our two leads: A
House committee
delves into a possible Russian
role in the
campaign that elected Donald
Trump, and a
Senate panel begins hearings on
the man chosen
by President Trump to serve on
the Supreme
Court.
We begin with the Russia file,
and Lisa Desjardins,
who has been watching it all.
LISA DESJARDINS: In a rare open
hearing of
the House Intelligence
Committee, a rare admission
from the FBI director.
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: I
have been authorized
by the Department of Justice to
confirm that
the FBI, as part of our
counterintelligence
mission, is investigating the
Russian government's
efforts to interfere in the 2016
presidential
election.
And that includes investigating
the nature
of any links between individuals
associated
with the Trump campaign and the
Russian government
and whether there was any
coordination between
the campaign and Russia's
efforts.
LISA DESJARDINS: Beside Comey
sat National
Security Agency Chief Michael
Rogers.
Both stood by the intelligence
community's
earlier report that Russian
President Vladimir
Putin clearly favored the
candidacy of Donald
Trump.
JAMES COMEY: Putin hated
Secretary Clinton
so much, that the flip side of
that coin was
he had a clear preference for
the person running
against the person he hated so
much.
LISA DESJARDINS: Committee
Democrats and Republicans
pursued sharply different lines
of questioning:
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF (D), California: In
early July,
Carter Page, someone candidate
Trump identified
as one of his national security
advisers,
travels to Moscow on a trip
approved by the
Trump campaign.
LISA DESJARDINS: Ranking
Democrat Adam Schiff
listed contacts between Trump
advisers and
Russian officials and raised
concern.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Many of Trump
campaign personnel,
including the president himself,
have ties
to Russia and Russian interests.
This is, of course, no crime.
On the other hand, if the Trump
campaign or
anyone associated with it aided
or abetted
the Russians, it wouldn't only
be a serious
crime.
It would also represent one of
the most shocking
betrayals of democracy in
history.
LISA DESJARDINS: But committee
Chairman Devin
Nunes and other Republicans
pushed to show
that Russians didn't directly
change vote
totals.
REP.
DEVIN NUNES (R), California:
Admiral Rogers,
do you have any evidence that
Russia cyber-actors
changed vote tallies?
ADM.
MIKE ROGERS, National Security
Agency Director:
No, I do not.
LISA DESJARDINS: The president
soon after
tweeted that: "The NSA and FBI
tell Congress
that Russia didn't influence
electoral process."
But, back at the hearing,
Democrat Jim Himes
pounced, saying a lack of
manipulating votes
directly is different than no
influence at
all.
REP.
JIM HIMES (D), Connecticut: So,
it's not too
far of a logical leap to
conclude that the
assertion that you have told the
Congress
that there was no influence on
the electoral
is not quite right?
JAMES COMEY: Right.
It certainly wasn't our
intention to say that
today, because we don't have any
information
on that subject.
That's not something that was
looked at.
LISA DESJARDINS: More than
anything, Republicans
raised alarm over leaks and
stories with reportedly
classified information and names
in the investigation.
REP.
TREY GOWDY (R), South Carolina:
I thought
it was against the law to
disseminate classified
information.
Is it?
JAMES COMEY: Oh, yes.
Sure, it's a serious crime.
LISA DESJARDINS: South Carolina
Congressman
Trey Gowdy went farther, warning
that unless
the leaks are stopped, a key
provision of
the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act,
or FISA, may not be reauthorized
by Congress
this year.
REP.
TREY GOWDY: Trust me, you and I
both want
to see it reauthorized.
It's in jeopardy if we don't get
this resolved.
LISA DESJARDINS: The hearing hit
extraordinary
territory.
Democrats pushed on President
Trump's charges
that President Obama wiretapped
him.
JAMES COMEY: With respect to the
presidents
tweets about alleged wiretapping
directed
at him by the prior
administration, I have
no information that supports
those tweets.
LISA DESJARDINS: Republican
Chairman Nunes
agreed, but didn't rule out that
other measures
could have been involved.
REP.
DEVIN NUNES: It's still possible
that other
surveillance activities were
used against
President Trump and his
associates.
LISA DESJARDINS: President Trump
and his aides
have refused to back off the
surveillance
charge.
They say it's veracity is for
the investigation
to determine.
Meanwhile, today, White House
spokesman Sean
Spicer defended the president
and his campaign,
but he also seemed to downplay
the campaign
role of two key players known
for their ties
to Russia, former campaign
adviser Michael
Flynn and former campaign
manager Paul Manafort.
SEAN SPICER, White House Press
Secretary:
Even General Flynn was a
volunteer of the
campaign.
And then, obviously, there's
been discussion
of Paul Manafort, who played a
very limited
role for a very limited amount
of time.
LISA DESJARDINS: At the hearing,
over it all
was Russia, a country the NSA
chief said changed
its tactics in 2016.
ADM.
MIKE ROGERS: I would say the
biggest difference,
from my perspective, was both
the use of cyber,
the hacking as a vehicle to
physically gain
access, to information to
extract that information
and then to make it widely
publicly available
without any alteration or
change.
JAMES COMEY: The only thing that
I would add
is that they were unusually loud
in their
intervention.
It's almost as if they didn't
care that we
knew what they were doing or
that they wanted
us to see what they were doing.
LISA DESJARDINS: FBI Director
Comey gave a
warning.
JAMES COMEY: They will be back.
They will be back in 2020.
They may be back in 2018.
And one of the lessons they may
draw from
this is that they were
successful, because
they introduced chaos and
division and discord.
LISA DESJARDINS: Chairman Nunes
closed the
hearing with a stark verdict on
the five-hour
session.
REP.
DEVIN NUNES: There is a big,
gray cloud that
you have now put over people who
have very
important work to do to lead
this country.
And so the faster you can get to
the bottom
of this, it's going to be better
for all Americans.
LISA DESJARDINS: For "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins at the Capitol.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we turn now
to the ranking
member of the House Intelligence
Committee.
He is Democratic Representative
Adam Schiff
of California.
Congressman Schiff, welcome back
to the program.
What's the main thing that you
think was clarified
at today's hearing?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, I think a
number of things.
First, I think Director Comey
made the case
that he had opened an
investigation into potential
agency with a foreign power or
coordination
with a foreign power.
That's not done unless there is
specific and
credible information or evidence
that someone
is colluding.
I also think that it was
significant that
you had two directors directly
rebuff the
president's claims that he was
illegally wiretapped
or wiretapped at all by his
predecessor.
But more than that, I think the
main takeaway,
I hope, for the country from the
hearing is
a recognition of just what
serious business
this is, because, as Director
Comey says,
the Russians will do this again.
And we really need a thorough
investigation
to determine just what the
Russians did, how
did they do it, were there U.S.
persons involved,
and how do we protect ourselves
from their
future efforts to interfere?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I hear you
say this,
Congressman Schiff, and yet
President Trump
tweeted today that Admiral
Rogers and the
FBI director, Jim Comey, told
Congress that
Russia didn't influence the
electoral process
in the United States last year.
So, that doesn't seem to square
with what
you just said.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, it didn't
square with what
the witnesses said at the
hearing either.
And that was pointed by my
colleague Jim Himes,
who followed up with both
directors and did
some real-time fact-checking on
the president.
And, of course, that's not what
the directors
said.
The directors can't really
comment.
It's not their mission, their
job or their
expertise to say what effect the
Russian interference
had in terms of outcomes, but
clearly they
interfered with the electoral
process.
And here's the problem.
If the president is going to
distort what
the intelligence community says
in open hearing,
how can we have confidence when
the president
comes before the country to
share what the
intelligence agencies have told
him in closed,
classified session, because the
country needs
to know, because the president
wants to take
action, where the president
needs to decide
what the response should be to
North Korea
or around Iran?
How can we have confidence that
the president
is being truthful?
And the short answer is, if he
keeps this
up, we can't.
And that's a real danger to the
country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what does
that mean,
Congressman Schiff?
What are you saying you're
worried that could
happen?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, the best
example I can
give is, let's say, six months
from now, the
president says that Iran is
cheating on the
nuclear deal.
Obviously, if Iran isn't
cheating, that's
a big problem.
If he's making this up, the way
he's making
up the claim that Barack Obama
wiretapped
him, that's a big problem.
If the president is telling the
truth, in
a way, it's a bigger problem,
because, will
he be believed?
Will he be believed by the
American people?
Will he be believed by our
allies that he
needs to rally to reimpose
sanctions or take
some other action against Iran?
Each time the president
undermines his own
credibility, he weakens himself,
he weakens
the institution of the
presidency, he weakens
the credibility of the entire
country and
our standing in the rest of the
world.
And when there is a crisis, we
pay a dear
price for that loss of
credibility.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the other
hand, Congressman,
Republicans on the committee
today were calling
into question whether the
intelligence community
can be relied on.
They -- question after question
was about
leaks coming from the
intelligence community
and anyone who had access to
that information.
The president, President Trump,
is saying
what the intelligence community
says is fake
news.
He's dismissing it.
Republicans are saying they're
leaking all
over the place.
So, I guess my question -- and
then you also
had Congressman Trey Gowdy, your
Republican
colleague on the committee,
saying that perhaps
the FISA court, the courts that
authorize
much of their investigation, may
be in trouble.
Are you confident that an
investigation is
going to be thoroughly carried
out here?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Well, on the leak
issue, first
of all, I think we have to
understand just
the breadth of what people are
talking about
when they talk about leaks.
The leaks that most concern me,
that ought
to most concern the country is
when information
is leaked that betrays sources
and methods
of information that our allies
-- well, that
expose us to danger, because our
enemies can
then perpetrate attacks because
we lose those
confidential sources of
information.
Those are the most serious
leaks.
What seems to really upset the
administration
is a different kind of leak.
It's a leak that exposes
malfeasance within
the administration.
What really upset the president
wasn't the
fact that Mike Flynn was
unmasked to the country
and that Mike Flynn was exposed
as having
lied to the country and the vice
president
about his conversations with the
Russian ambassador.
What really upset the president
was that,
essentially, he was caught in
the lie.
And you will remember, even
after firing Flynn,
he wanted to praise Flynn and
castigate the
press.
That's something very different.
That's a leak that discloses
malfeasance in
the administration.
And I would say, look, this leak
problem,
every administration has it.
And one of the things my GOP
colleagues didn't
want to acknowledge today -- and
the president
certainly doesn't want to
acknowledge -- is,
they can say we think, we fear,
we suspect
this is coming from the
intelligence community.
They're a bunch of Nazis.
That's essentially the
president's original
tweet on this.
But it's also very possible that
some of these
leaks are coming from the White
House itself,
and a division among people,
staff in the
White House...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean from the
Trump White
House?
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: From the Trump
White House, exactly,
because, of course, the Trump
White House
knew this information as well.
And there have been lots of
public reports
about how there's infighting
among the Trump
administration and to watch your
back.
Well, maybe somebody wanted
Michael Flynn
out among the president's own
team.
I don't know that that's
happened, but if
we're serious about this, I
would say to my
GOP colleagues, be careful what
you wish for,
because the trail may lead right
back to the
White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman Adam
Schiff, the
ranking member of the House
Intelligence Committee,
thank you.
And we will be talking to you
again, I know.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a moment, we
will hear from
Republican Senator Charles
Grassley.
But, first, we want to turn to
that other
major story today, day one of
the confirmation
hearings for Neil Gorsuch,
President Trump's
pick for the Supreme Court.
Here are some excerpts of what
senators on
the Judiciary Committee, as well
as the nominee
himself, had to say in opening
statements.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa:
Judge, welcome
to the Senate Judiciary
Committee.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It was day one of
Judge Neil
Gorsuch's hearing, as senators
took turns
making opening statements, and
laying out
partisan attacks for the week to
come.
Judiciary Chairman Chuck
Grassley opened with
an alert for the nominee.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: Judge, I'm
afraid, over
the next couple of days, you
will get some
questions that will cause you
just to scratch
your head.
Senators will cite some opinion
of yours,
and then we will hear that
you're for the
big guy and against the little
guy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gorsuch's record
on corporate
cases was a theme that carried
through the
day.
SEN.
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (D), Rhode
Island: Your
record on corporate vs. human
litigants comes
in, by one count, at 21-2 for
corporations.
Tellingly, big special interests
and their
front groups are spending
millions of dollars
in a dark money campaign to push
your confirmation.
SEN.
JEFF FLAKE (R), Arizona: One of
my colleagues
said Judge Gorsuch is
pro-business or against
the little guy.
I think the record shows that we
can be confident
he will read the law as written
and not legislate
from the bench.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For their part,
Republicans
spent most of the hearing
praising Gorsuch's
legal resume.
SEN.
ORRIN HATCH (R), Utah: Judge
Gorsuch's legal
experience is well-known.
My Democratic colleagues have
referred to
the American Bar Association's
rating as the
gold standard for evaluating
judicial nominees.
The ABA's unanimous
well-qualified rating
for Judge Gorsuch confirms that
he has the
highest level of professional
qualifications,
including integrity, confidence
and temperament.
JUDY WOODRUFF: While Democrats
knocked his
constitutional philosophy as too
rigid.
SEN.
DIANNE FEINSTEIN (D),
California: Judge Gorsuch
has also stated that he believes
judges should
look to the original public
meaning of the
Constitution when they decide
what a provision
of the Constitution means.
This is personal, but I find
this originalist
judicial philosophy to be really
troubling.
I firmly believe the American
Constitution
is a living document, intended
to evolve as
our country evolves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republican
Senator Mike Lee
pushed back.
SEN.
MIKE LEE (R), Utah: Referring to
you as an
originalist just doesn't stick.
This is not a description that
was attributed
to you.
The last time you stood before
this committee
and went through a confirmation
process, nowhere
in the record is there any
reference to you
being outside the mainstream.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All this amidst a
bitter backdrop
for Democrats, after Republicans
last year
blocked Merrick Garland,
President Obama's
pick to replace the late Justice
Antonin Scalia.
His seat has now been vacant for
more than
a year.
SEN.
RICHARD DURBIN (D-IL), Minority
Whip: It was
clear that Senator McConnell was
making a
political decision, hoping a
Republican president
would be elected.
He was willing to ignore the
tradition and
precedent of the Senate, so that
you could
sit at this witness table today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Fellow Coloradan
Democrat Senator
Michael Bennet, who helped
introduced Gorsuch,
acknowledged the tension.
SEN.
MICHAEL BENNET (D), Colorado: I
believe the
Senate has a constitutional duty
to give fair
consideration to this nominee,
just as we
had a duty to consider fairly
Judge Merrick
Garland.
But, Mr. Chairman, two wrongs
never make a
right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Some Democrats
also aimed their
attacks at President Trump.
SEN.
RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (D),
Connecticut: The independence
of those judges has never been
more threatened
and never more important.
And a large part of the threat
comes from
the man who nominated you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As for the
nominee, himself,
he spoke last, giving an opening
statement
of his own, and promising
independence.
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: Mr. Chairman,
these days, we sometimes hear
judges cynically
described as politicians in
robes, seeking
to enforce their own politics,
rather than
striving to apply the law
impartially.
If I thought that were true, I
would hang
up the robe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gorsuch tried to
deflect some
of the claims made by Democrats.
NEIL GORSUCH: My decisions have
never reflected
a judgment about the people
before me, only
a judgment about the law and the
facts at
issue in each particular case.
A good judge can promise no more
than that,
and a good judge should
guarantee no less,
for a judge who likes every
outcome he reaches
is probably a pretty bad judge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The hearings
continue tomorrow
and through the week.
And now to my conversation with
the chairman
of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.
He's Republican Chuck Grassley
of Iowa.
We spoke a short time ago.
And I began by asking what the
country learned
about Judge Gorsuch today.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: I think they
learned that
he is willing to be a judge, and
not be a
legislator, and I think he tells
best what
he's up to when he says a judge
that likes
all his decisions isn't a very
good judge.
He's getting back to the
independence that
a member of the judiciary branch
needs to
show if he's going to truly be a
referee within
our governmental system.
And he showed that very clearly
by demonstrating
that you should look at the
facts of the days,
look at the law and be
dispassionate, in other
words, leave your own personal
views out of
it.
And I think that's reinforced by
his writings
very well.
Of course, we're going to go
through this
over the next 48 hours.
But I believe what I'm telling
you kind of
sums up what we are going to
know at the end
of 48 hours.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, many
Republicans say
they want Judge Gorsuch to be as
close as
possible to the late Justice
Antonin Scalia.
He's clearly a different person,
but are his
views different from those of
Justice Scalia?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: Well, I think
the difference
is only in the sense of degrees.
And I don't know whether there
has been enough
comparison to his writings with
Justice Scalia.
But from the standpoint of being
a strict
constructionist of the
Constitution and following
the intent of Congress, and not
legislating
from the bench, I think, in that
general way,
he fits very well in with
Scalia.
But, quite frankly, I don't know
whether anybody
can replace Scalia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we noticed,
Senator Grassley,
Democrats on the Judiciary
Committee today
said they're concerned about
Judge Gorsuch.
Among other things, we heard
Senator Pat Leahy
say he's got support from
conservative interest
groups that are anti-choice,
anti-environment,
pro-corporate.
Are these areas, though, that
Republicans,
conservatives are counting on
him to reflect?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: Well, I think
that you're
not going to get any opinion out
of him other
than what he said in his cases,
and I don't
think it's fair to say that he's
pro one way
and anti another way.
I think, in regard to corporate
interests
as an example, he's been on both
sides of
it.
He doesn't have a philosophy
that is easy
to predict, except that he's
going to interpret
the law and not read something
into the law
that Congress didn't intend.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Your fellow
Republican Senator
Lindsey Graham today deplored
the fact that
there is increasing partisanship
in Senate
votes to confirm Supreme Court
and other judicial
nominees.
And it is the case, Senator,
that the votes
have been increasingly along
party lines.
Do you think Judge Gorsuch will
end up winning
Democratic votes?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: A few, but I
don't think
very many.
I think the base of the Democrat
Party is
very strongly wanting to
demonstrate two things,
one, that they may not approve
of his approach
to the law and the Constitution,
and, secondly,
they want to make a case that
Garland should
have been approved last year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, Senator
Grassley,
I want to ask you about the
other big story
of the day.
It happened on the other side of
the Capitol.
And that's the FBI director, the
head the
National Security Agency
testified before
the House Intelligence
Committee.
The FBI director, Jim Comey,
confirmed that
his agency is looking into
connections, any
possible connections between the
Russian attempts
to influence the 2016 election
and the Trump
campaign.
He also said that there's no
evidence that
President Obama ordered a
wiretap of President
Trump.
Overall, do you believe, do you
have confidence
that the FBI is going to get to
the bottom
of all this?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: I think it's
going to be
very, very difficult and it's
going to go
on for a long time.
But I do think that they should
be just as
vigorous in investigating the
leak possibility
as well, because that's where
national security
could be at risk.
And we talk all about
investigating Trump
or Trump people, but we -- I
don't hear enough
from them on investigating the
leaks, which
is a felony, if the person can
be found.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you think the
leaks are
more important than any possible
coordination
between the Trump campaign and
the Russian
interference in the election?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: Not at all.
I think they're both of equal
importance.
But all I hear them talking
about is the relationship
between Trump people and Russia.
I don't hear anything about the
breaking of
leaks.
And, in the first place, in
regard to the
relationship, there is a lot of
accusations,
but there's -- it was pretty
clear today it
didn't lead to them believing
that there was
any connection between the Trump
campaign
and the Russian government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think,
finally, Senator,
that the FBI's statement they
don't see any
evidence that President Obama
ordered a wiretap
of President Trump during the
campaign, that
that puts that to rest?
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: I think that
you're going
to have to wait until the Senate
Intelligence
Committee gets done in a couple
of weeks -- they
are going to get into that --
before I can
draw that conclusion.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Charles
Grassley, the
chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee,
thank you very much.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY: Thank you very
much, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And back to the
Supreme Court
nominee now.
We want to take a closer look
now at Judge
Gorsuch from those who know him
well and have
studied his record closely.
Jeffrey Brown has this portrait.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Today, I am keeping another
promise to the
American people.
JEFFREY BROWN: President Trump
announced his
pick in the East Room of the
White House on
January 31.
DONALD TRUMP: He is the man of
our country
and a man who our country really
needs and
needs badly to ensure the rule
of law and
the rule of justice.
JEFFREY BROWN: And Americans had
a first chance
to meet Neil Gorsuch, his wife,
Louise, at
his side, a man who at age 49
could have a
profound effect on the nation's
laws, and
political life, for decades to
come.
NEIL GORSUCH, Supreme Court
Nominee: Standing
here in a house of history, and
acutely aware
of my own imperfections, I
pledge that if
I am confirmed, I will do all my
powers permit
to be a faithful servant of the
Constitution
and laws of this great country.
MICHAEL TRENT, Friend of Neil
Gorsuch: He's
very humble.
If you met him in a crowd of
people, he wouldn't
be the person that stood out and
tried to
capture the most attention of
the group.
He would be the person that
would listen and
sort of wait for an opportunity
to share his
thoughts.
JEFFREY BROWN: Michael Trent has
known Gorsuch
since they were freshman in high
school, and
served as best man at his
wedding.
He's talked with his friend in
recent days.
Where is his head at right now?
MICHAEL TRENT: It's very focused
on preparing
for the hearings.
He wants to be sure that he gets
it right.
He wants to make sure that he
puts his best
foot forward.
JEFFREY BROWN: He also knows, of
course, the
politics of our time.
MICHAEL TRENT: I wish people
would look past,
you know, the rough-and-tumble
bit of politics
and what's going on in the press
and look
to the person that he is.
JEFFREY BROWN: Trent says Neil
Gorsuch is
a Coloradan through and through,
a lover of
the outdoors, fishing, hiking,
and skiing.
He was raised in Denver with two
siblings,
his mother a prominent
Republican state legislator.
She was tapped by Ronald Reagan
as the first
woman to head the EPA, bringing
the family
to Washington, D.C., when Neil
was 14.
ANNE GORSUCH BURFORD, Former EPA
Administrator:
I did submit my resignation to
the president
of the United States, with
regret, last night
about 5:00.
JEFFREY BROWN: Anne Gorsuch
Burford resigned
in the wake of a congressional
investigation
into mismanagement of a
hazardous waste program
just 22 months into her tenure.
Politically conservative from an
early age,
Neil Gorsuch attended Columbia
University,
where he and friends started
their own conservative
paper called "The Federalist."
MICHAEL TRENT: I think probably
what he saw
at Columbia was one side being
reported over
and over again, and he wanted to
provide another
side.
JEFFREY BROWN: Even more than
that, he wants
to put a kind of conservative
view into a
liberal bastion.
Right?
MICHAEL TRENT: Well, it was
Columbia, I mean,
you know New York City in the
1980s.
The fact that he was ambitious
enough to start
his own paper and get his own
thoughts out
there, I think, speaks a lot to
the type of
person that he is.
I mean, a lot of people will go
off and do
wild things in college.
And, you know, Neil basically
took that opportunity
to put his thoughts on paper and
get them
out there.
JEFFREY BROWN: Gorsuch attended
Harvard Law
School, and was a Marshall
Scholar at Oxford,
where he met his wife.
He clerked for Supreme Court
Justices Byron
White and Anthony Kennedy, who
remains a key
player on the court today.
He spent 10 years in private
practice, and
one in the Justice Department
under George
W. Bush, who appointed Gorsuch,
then just
38, to a seat on the 10th
Circuit Court of
Appeals, based in Denver.
You're not surprised that he's
up for a Supreme
Court nomination?
JAMIL JAFFER, Former Clerk:
Well, actually,
I'm shocked.
JEFFREY BROWN: You are?
JAMIL JAFFER: Yes, to be honest
with you,
because he's such a
down-to-earth guy.
You just don't get that sense
of, he's going
to go try and run the world.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jamil Jaffer
worked with Gorsuch
at the law firm and later as his
law clerk
and has remained a friend.
Jaffer now teaches at the
Antonin Scalia Law
School at George Mason
University, named for
the man who Neil Gorsuch may
replace.
JAMIL JAFFER: One of the
interesting things
about Judge Gorsuch is that he
really is a
judge's judge.
JEFFREY BROWN: What does that
mean, exactly?
JAMIL JAFFER: So he's not
looking to get a
particular outcome.
He doesn't have a particular
policy view that
he wants to impose upon the law.
What it is, is it's applying the
laws Congress
wrote, applying the Constitution
as the people
who wrote it understood it,
right, and not
sort of going outside of those
bounds.
And so maybe that's a
conservative philosophy,
in the sense that it's
originalist, it's textualist,
in the mold of, I would say,
Justice Scalia,
but also very mainstream, in the
sense that
when you apply it to any given
case, you're
not going to necessarily like
all the outcomes.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, I understand
it, but it
also sounds a little maybe naive
in the political
context we're talking about,
right?
JAMIL JAFFER: Sure.
JEFFREY BROWN: Scalia was a
lightning rod
on all kinds of social and all
kinds of political
issues.
JAMIL JAFFER: Don't get me
wrong.
I mean, Judge Gorsuch is
certainly conservative.
But I would say he's in the
mainstream of
conservatism.
You're not going to get a
liberal judge from
President Donald Trump, right?
That's not what he ran on.
But if you're looking for sort
of a mainstream
conservative, a judge's judge,
somebody who's
not going to go out of the way
to either get
to a conservative outcome or a
liberal outcome,
then you have got Neil Gorsuch.
JEFFREY BROWN: What is known of
Neil Gorsuch's
views?
Among his early writings, a book
on assisted
suicide, arguing against the
practice and
for the inviolability of human
life, and a
"National Review" article, from
before he
became a judge, critical of
liberals who -- quote
-- "have become addicted to the
courtroom,
rather than elected leaders and
the ballot
box, as the primary means of
effecting their
social agenda."
In a prominent and contentious
case, Judge
Gorsuch sided with Hobby Lobby
stores, which
objected to a requirement under
the Affordable
Care Act that it provide
contraception coverage.
That decision was later upheld
by the Supreme
Court.
But he's also written on the
needs of low-income
litigants and prisoners, calling
for more
affordable legal services and
better representation
in death penalty cases.
Gorsuch was personally close to
Justice Scalia.
In a speech last year at Case
Western Reserve,
he spoke of being on the ski
slope when he
learned of Scalia's death.
NEIL GORSUCH: I immediately lost
what breath
I had left.
And I'm not embarrassed to admit
that I couldn't
see the rest of the way down the
mountain
through the tears.
JEFFREY BROWN: He added this of
their shared
judicial philosophy.
NEIL GORSUCH: As Justice Scalia
put it -- and
it rings true to me -- if you're
going to
be a good and faithful judge,
you have to
resign yourself to the fact that
you're not
always going to like the
conclusions you reach.
If you like them all the time,
you're probably
doing something wrong.
NARRATOR: Neil Gorsuch is a
family man, a
conservative from Colorado.
JEFFREY BROWN: Conservatives and
business
groups like what they see.
NARRATOR: Why did he make it
harder to hold
Wall Street accountable or for
women to get
birth control?
JEFFREY BROWN: But liberals see
a different
picture, one in which Gorsuch
could fall on
the court's far right end of the
spectrum.
ELIZABETH WYDRA, Constitutional
Accountability
Center: You know, it really
doesn't matter
whether he's a genial person or
a great guy
to go skiing with.
I'm sure all of those things are
true.
But what really matters is his
record and
whether he can be the
independent justice
that we really need on the
Supreme Court to
provide a check against
potential overreach
from the elective branches.
JEFFREY BROWN: Elizabeth Wydra,
head of the
Constitutional Accountability
Center, a public
interest law and advocacy group,
says Donald
Trump set out a clear litmus
test, including
a willingness to overturn Roe v.
Wade.
One can only assume, she told
me, Gorsuch
met the test.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Certainly, we
want our justices
to look to the text and history
of the Constitution,
but what I'm concerned about is
whether he
looks to the text and history of
the whole
Constitution, including
amendments that made
our Constitution more equal,
ensuring that
people of all colors, men and
women are treated
equally as citizens.
JEFFREY BROWN: It almost sounds
as though
anybody that Trump would put
forward, because
he was very clear about what he
wanted, right?
ELIZABETH WYDRA: I think this is
where the
hearing becomes very important.
There is a big burden placed on
Neil Gorsuch
to come before the Senate
Judiciary Committee
and show that, despite the
process by which
he was picked, replete with
litmus tests and
high rhetoric from Donald Trump,
Neil Gorsuch
has the burden to show the
Senate Judiciary
Committee that he will be this
fair, independent
judge who will follow the law
where it leads.
JEFFREY BROWN: Neil Gorsuch has
spent recent
weeks meeting with senators on
both sides
of the aisle and preparing for
those hearings,
a very public debate now under
way.
From Washington, I'm Jeffrey
Brown for the
"PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we continue
our look at
the potential next Supreme Court
justice,
Neil Gorsuch, and the opening
day of his confirmation
hearings with "NewsHour" regular
Marcia Coyle
of "The National Law Journal."
Tom Goldstein, he's founder of
SCOTUSblog.com.
Pam Karlan, she's a professor of
law at Stanford
University who worked in the
Justice Department
during the Obama administration,
and Paul
Clement, a former solicitor
general under
President George W. Bush.
And we welcome all of you to the
"NewsHour."
Marcia, I'm going to start with
you.
Overall takeaway from today's
session?
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Well, the first day usually is
not all that
substantive.
The hearing played out the way
it has traditionally.
The senators -- each senator has
an opening
statement.
Then there is an introduction of
the nominee,
and the nominee's opening
statement.
That did happen.
But what we gather from the
first day is,
we see where the concerns are on
both sides,
where the questioning may lead,
what kind
of difficulties the nominee may
have in answering
some of the questions.
On the Republican said today, we
saw a lot
of emphasis on Judge Gorsuch's
qualifications.
On the Democratic side, we saw
specific concerns
about opinions he has written in
areas, certain
areas such as workers'
protection, whether
he would give deference to
agencies' rules.
So, it's really a laying out of
what's to
come.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Paul Clement,
what was your
main takeaway today?
PAUL CLEMENT, Former U.S.
Solicitor General:
Well, I thought probably the
single most interesting
part of the hearing was Judge
Gorsuch's own
statement.
And I think what the American
public saw was
somebody who's very poised, very
experienced
-- he's been a federal court of
appeals judge
for over 10 years -- and I think
somebody
by kind of any conventional
standard is qualified
to be on the Supreme Court of
the United States.
And so I think that will
probably give us
an indication.
We will obviously see a lot more
of Judge
Gorsuch in tomorrow's hearings
answering questions
in the back and forth, but that
was really
the highlight for me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Pam Karlan,
again, we
only heard just a moment or so
from Judge
Gorsuch himself today, but what
was your main
takeaway in terms of what we now
know?
PAM KARLAN, Stanford Law School:
Well, from
Judge Gorsuch himself, he made
this point
-- and you saw it in the clip --
that in 97
percent of his cases below, the
decision is
unanimous.
That's totally different from
what happens
on the Supreme Court.
The job of a judge and the job
of a justice
are very different, because
justices are resolving
the constitutional questions
that divide us
most.
And I think you got a sense from
the senators
that the senators, too,
recognize that there
are two very different
constitutional visions
at stake here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and I
wanted to ask you
about that, Paul -- Tom
Goldstein, because
it struck me, he said, that's
how we do it
in the West.
He said 97 percent of his -- of
the cases
he decided on were unanimous.
Even more were decided by -- he
was in the
majority.
Does that tell us something
about him or not?
TOM GOLDSTEIN, Founder,
SCOTUSblog.com: It
probably doesn't tell us as much
about the
outcomes in the cases, in the
cases where
there was a division.
When you get to the Supreme
Court, the stakes
are harder and the -- higher,
and the questions
are harder.
I don't think that there is any
suggestion
that you would really see Neil
Gorsuch kind
of assuming the mantle of the
center of justice
on the Supreme Court.
Rather, he's going to fit the
mold of the
person that he's replacing,
Justice Scalia.
In all likelihood, he's going to
be a solidly
conservative judge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what did you
hear today,
Marcia, in terms of lines that
you expect
the Democrats -- questioning,
criticism that
you expect the Democrats to...
MARCIA COYLE: Judy, I think
every confirmation
hearing, at least ones that I
have covered,
has something unique about it
that drives
the questioning.
And on the Democratic side today
and what
I think will drive a lot of the
questioning
is something that Senator
Klobuchar said that
sort of stayed with me.
She said, basically, we can't
evaluate your
credentials in a legal cocoon.
They have to be evaluated in the
context of
the era that we live in.
And for her and her colleagues,
that context
is pretty much what they believe
the Trump
administration has created.
She talked about the president's
criticisms
of judges, the obstacles to
voting, just a
whole range of things that she
feels he has
to be measured against in terms
of his independence.
So, I think we're going to see a
lot of questioning
that follows along those lines.
One of the sort of unfortunate
things, I think,
of what the Senate did on the
Garland nomination
was that it pushed the Supreme
Court into
a very bitter election campaign.
And that resulted in both
candidates having
litmus tests for their judicial
nominees.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MARCIA COYLE: And the fact that
President
Trump said that he would appoint
someone who,
for example, would overturn Roe
v. Wade really
creates a problem for Judge
Gorsuch when he
gets questioned about that, to
prove his independence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Paul
Clement, how do you
think that will affect his
approach to this
process for the next two days?
PAUL CLEMENT: Well, I think what
I would anticipate
is, he is going to be very
careful about not
compromising his ability to sit
on cases if
he gets confirmed.
So, I don't think there is going
to be a dramatically
different sort of willingness to
answer questions
compared to prior nominations.
Now, that may be dissatisfying
for some members
of the committee, to be sure.
But I think it's important.
You don't want somebody getting
confirmed,
but then having to recuse
themselves on all
manner of cases because they
essentially have
gotten into the nitty-gritty of
how they would
decide cases.
So, I don't anticipate you will
see any of
that.
I think a lot of the focus is
going to be
-- you heard some of this in the
senatorial
statements today -- big guy vs.
little guy
cases, religious liberty,
because this Hobby
Lobby case on the court of
appeals was one
of his more prominent cases.
But, in a way, it almost speaks
volumes the
cases that they're not talking
about.
He really did manage in 10 years
not to decide
cases in other hot-button areas.
And I think that's probably
going to be a
little bit frustrating for some
of the senators
who are going to want to really
dig in and
engage on the substance.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And pick up on
that, Pam Karlan.
Where can Democrats go in
talking, in questioning
Judge Gorsuch that will elicit
some feel,
some information about how he's
going to judge,
how he will rule as a Supreme
Court justice
if he's confirmed?
PAM KARLAN: Well, I think one of
the places
they can go is to talk about
cases that have
already been decided in areas of
law that
are quite fixed and ask him what
he thinks
about the way justices -- prior
justices went
about thinking about those
cases.
I will give you one example,
which was, when
the Supreme Court decided Brown
against Board
of Education, the case where the
court held
that de jure segregation in
public schools
was unconstitutional, they
decided two things
that day that I think the
senators really
should press him on.
One is, they decided that
applied to the federal
government as well through the
Fifth Amendment.
You can't read the Fifth
Amendment, which
was enacted in 1791, to suggest
that those
people who enacted it thought
that it prohibited
race discrimination.
So, how do we get the right
result there if
you're a strict originalist?
The same thing with regard to
the 14th Amendment.
And Chief Justice's Warren's
opinion for the
court said, in trying to decide
whether segregation
in public schools is
unconstitutional, we
can't turn the clock back to
1868.
Does Judge Gorsuch think that's
wrong?
Would he have signed on to an
opinion that
said that?
Or would he have taken the view
that, for
example, Justice Scalia gave in
an interview
to the "California Lawyer"
magazine, where
he said, you know, let's face
it, the 14th
Amendment, the Equal Protection
Clause, really
has very little to say about
whether sex discrimination
is unconstitutional.
So, I think he can be pressed on
cases that
aren't going to come before the
court.
But, quite candidly, I think, if
he's anywhere
as skillful as the four
predecessor nominees,
he will play rope-a-dope.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you --
well, pick up
on that, Tom Goldstein.
TOM GOLDSTEIN: Well, there are
two kinds of
nomination hearings.
One is where the nominee knows
they have the
votes.
And there's one -- the other
where they don't.
And Neil Gorsuch does.
The Republicans have a majority
in the Senate.
There's no prospect that any
Republican will
vote against him.
So, all he has to do is just do
no harm essentially.
And so I expect he will say
relatively little,
because that's the commonsense
things to do.
And, as Paul indicates, he has a
good reason
to not get into details, because
those issues
might come in front of him.
The one thing I do think we saw
today was
that there wasn't a hint by the
Democrats
that they were going to attempt
to filibuster
the nomination and force the
administration
to get to and the nomination to
get to 60
votes, or cause a change in the
Senate rules.
They just seem to -- the
Democrats don't seem
to have the energy and the
strategy to lay
down on the tracks over this
nominee, because
he seems to be within the
mainstream of what
you would expect from a
Republican president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, just to
follow up on
that, how much pressure is there
on him to
come across as so acceptable to
the Democrats
that they don't resort to...
TOM GOLDSTEIN: I don't think
actually that
much.
He does come across as a very
commonsense
guy, relatively plainspoken,
very clear.
He hasn't decided hot-button
issues like abortion
and affirmative action in
extreme ways.
And so all he has to do is just
not give Democrats
an excuse to caricature him as
an extremist
on the right, and then he's
fine.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we're going
to be following
it for the next two days.
And we're going to have all four
of you back.
Tom Goldstein, Marcia Coyle, Pam
Karlan, Paul
Clement, we thank you.
And we look forward to seeing
you back here
tomorrow.
TOM GOLDSTEIN: Thanks.
PAM KARLAN: Thanks.
MARCIA COYLE: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, tomorrow
morning, you
can turn to our Web site and our
social channels
starting at 9:30 Eastern to
watch continued
live coverage of day two of the
Gorsuch hearings.
You can also find our live blog
on -- of news,
commentary and analysis related
to the confirmation
proceedings.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
In the day's other news: There's
word that
U.S. authorities will ban many
electronic
devices on certain incoming
foreign flights.
News accounts tonight say the
Homeland Security
Department will announce the
move tomorrow.
It's said to include about a
dozen foreign
air carriers flying out of
Africa and the
Middle East.
A suicide car bomb killed at
least 23 people
today and wounded nearly 50 more
in Baghdad.
Police and hospital officials
say that the
target was a busy commercial
district in a
mostly Shiite neighborhood.
The Islamic State group has
staged a number
of attacks in Baghdad, even as
it's losing
ground to a government offensive
to retake
the city of Mosul.
The violence erupted as Iraq's
prime minister,
Haider al-Abadi, was visiting
President Trump
at the White House.
The president praised Abadi, but
said the
U.S. pullout from Iraq left a
vacuum for ISIS
militants to fill.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Your soldiers are fighting hard.
I know Mosul is moving along.
But Mosul was ours until we
left.
So, perhaps we shouldn't have
gone in, and,
certainly, we shouldn't have
left.
We should never, ever have left.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later this week,
Mr. Trump
will host a meeting of leaders
from 68 nations
to discuss strategy against
ISIS.
In Syria, government forces
recaptured parts
of Damascus a day after a
surprise rebel incursion
in the capital city.
The rebel blitz marked the
biggest infiltration
of Damascus since 2012.
The Syrian air force carried out
airstrikes
today on besieged areas.
Activists reported dozens
killed, and said
the fighting was continuing in
some places.
A new shakeup has hit the
ride-sharing company
Uber.
Jeff Jones has resigned as
president after
six months on the job.
In a statement, he said his
beliefs are -- quote
-- "inconsistent with what I saw
and experienced
at Uber."
The company faces allegations
that it ignores
sexual harassment.
It also acknowledged using
software to disguise
its activities in cities around
the world.
Billionaire and philanthropist
David Rockefeller
died today.
He was the last surviving
grandchild of John
D. Rockefeller, who built the
Standard Oil
fortune.
David Rockefeller served as
president of Chase
Manhattan Bank for 20 years and
was a major
benefactor of the arts and
conservation.
He was 101 years old.
Wall Street started this week
with a lackluster
showing.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost eight
points to close below 20906.
The Nasdaq rose half-a-point,
and the S&P
500 slipped four.
And there's a new happiest place
on earth.
It's Norway.
It bested Denmark for the top
spot in this
year's World Happiness Report.
The survey was co-authored by
economists in
the U.S. and Canada.
It takes into account life
expectancy, freedom,
wealth and other factors.
The U.S. slipped a spot to 14th
overall among
155 countries.
The Central African Republic
ranked last.
Now: A new art exhibit explores
contemporary
life in the American West, as
seen through
the eyes of Latino artists and
their immigrant
experience.
Jeffrey Brown is back with the
story from
Denver.
JEFFREY BROWN: At the Denver Art
Museum recently,
an emotional moment for artist
Ramiro Gomez
and his parents.
WOMAN: I'm very proud of him.
JEFFREY BROWN: He'd brought them
here to see
his newest work, called Lupita,
an installation
that pays homage to a janitor
who worked at
these galleries.
It was particularly poignant.
Gomez's parents themselves are
laborers, his
mother a janitor, his father a
truck driver.
RAMIRO GOMEZ, Artist: I wouldn't
be here without
their labor.
I wouldn't be here without their
sacrifice.
JEFFREY BROWN: Today, Gomez is
an up-and-coming
artist in Los Angeles featured
in galleries
and exhibitions for work that
captures a life
of work by immigrants and
others, not typically
the subject of art.
RAMIRO GOMEZ: It's important for
me to highlight
these people that are not going
to be recorded
in our history.
JEFFREY BROWN: In Denver, Gomez
was one of
13 young Mexican-American
artists chosen for
an exhibition called Mi Tierra,
their assignment,
to create a new work that
explores the idea
of home and place in the
American West.
There were smaller paintings and
large installations,
videos about the land before
Europeans settled
here, and a garden that looked
like a giant
pinata.
Many of the artists tackled the
politically
charged topic of immigration.
This piece contained an actual
panel of the
U.S.-Mexico border fence.
RAMIRO GOMEZ: For me, place
becomes a very
difficult word to focus on, just
because place
is never permanent.
We're constantly moving.
It's constantly shifting.
I'm an American-born child to
Mexican immigrants.
So, I'm at once Mexican and
American.
I'm in between.
That in-between space, that
in-between place
that I occupy is something that
is constantly
changing within myself.
JEFFREY BROWN: Dmitri
Obergfell's installation
reflects an internal identity
struggle.
He was raised in Colorado by his
American
mother and was estranged from
his Mexican
father until recently.
For the museum, he recreated a
market typical
of many Latino neighborhoods in
Denver, one
that sells T-shirts, sculptures
of narco-saints
and praying hands with manicured
nails.
DMITRI OBERGFELL, Artist: The
reason I wanted
to explore this sort of theme in
this way
using, like, this market is
because I have
kind of always existed on the
perimeter of
Latino culture.
JEFFREY BROWN: You feel
complicated when it
comes to identity?
DMITRI OBERGFELL: I think that
it would be
maybe in bad taste for me to
take this opportunity
and come into this exhibition
and say, OK,
I'm fully Latino now.
Like, for me, it was just about
exploring
and having this sort of
cathartic process
to work through these
complicated identity
ideas.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jaime Carrejo is
a professor
at Rocky Mountain College of Art
and a fourth-generation
American who grew up in the
border city of
El Paso, Texas.
He created his own border wall
with video
images of Mexico projected on
one side and
of the U.S. on the other.
JAIME CARREJO, Professor, Rocky
Mountain College
of Art: I'm really interested in
the construction
of divisiveness and how we use
that to make
people part of a group or
exclude them.
In making art, you can create
complex discussions
about complex issues, because
things don't
exist in dualities.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's
interesting, because
there is a duality here, right?
There's one country, and there's
another.
JAIME CARREJO: You have the
dualities, but
the wall itself, because of the
reflective
materials, they end up
collapsing on each
other.
There would be moments where the
image of
Mexico will be transcribed on
the image of
the United States.
You have this whole different
landscape.
So, you end up with this complex
layering
and mix of an image, which I
think is the
perfect metaphor of what it
means to be a
U.S. citizen of the United
States.
JEFFREY BROWN: Landscape and two
worlds colliding
was also the focus for Daniela
Edburg, who's
lived her life back and forth in
both countries.
Her piece, titled Uprooted,
featured a large
crocheted root and plant system
that weaves
together photographs of
immigrants and images
from the Western terrain.
DANIELA EDBURG, Artist: I have
always had
this thing of being, like, of
two places.
JEFFREY BROWN: Literally.
I mean, that's how you grew up.
DANIELA EDBURG: Yes.
That's how I grew up, you know,
with two languages,
two points of reference
culturally that are
similar, but not the same.
In my adulthood, I have found it
very comforting
to find connections between the
places through
the landscape.
JEFFREY BROWN: How much are you
watching the
headlines and reading the news
in this context?
DANIELA EDBURG: Oh, well, of
course I'm watching
what's going on.
And I -- and of course it
informs my work.
But I am also talking about
stepping back
and looking at the bigger
picture.
JEFFREY BROWN: The exhibition Mi
Tierra shows
through October.
From the Denver Art Museum, I'm
Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: It's the first day of
spring, and that
means more hours of sunlight
each day, and,
for some people, more sneezes.
Why does just looking at the sun
trigger our
noses?
We explore this strange
phenomenon on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And, finally, a correction to
Friday night's
program.
In a report about carbon
emissions, we had
a missing word in the copy.
We reported that emissions fell
in the U.S.
and China in 2016.
And we should have said that
that drop is
thanks to greater use of
renewable energy
and nuclear and gas power.
The "NewsHour" regrets the
error, and we thank
our alert audience members for
flagging it.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
Don't forget, you can tune in to
watch day
two of the Gorsuch confirmation
hearings.
That's on our Web site and
social media platforms.
That's starting tomorrow, 9:30
Eastern time.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.